README.md, before:

# jquery.cookie [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/carhartl/jquery-cookie.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/carhartl/jquery-cookie)

A simple, lightweight jQuery plugin for reading, writing and deleting cookies.

## Installation

Include script *after* the jQuery library (unless you are packaging scripts somehow else):

    <script src="/path/to/jquery.cookie.js"></script>

**Do not include the script directly from GitHub (http://raw.github.com/...).** The file is being served as text/plain and as such being blocked
in Internet Explorer on Windows 7 for instance (because of the wrong MIME type). Bottom line: GitHub is not a CDN.

The plugin can also be loaded as AMD module.

## Usage

Create session cookie:

    $.cookie('the_cookie', 'the_value');

Create expiring cookie, 7 days from then:

    $.cookie('the_cookie', 'the_value', { expires: 7 });

Create expiring cookie, valid across entire site:

    $.cookie('the_cookie', 'the_value', { expires: 7, path: '/' });

Read cookie:

    $.cookie('the_cookie'); // => "the_value"
    $.cookie('not_existing'); // => undefined

Read all available cookies:

    $.cookie(); // => { "the_cookie": "the_value", "...remaining": "cookies" }

Delete cookie:

    // Returns true when cookie was found, false when no cookie was found...
    $.removeCookie('the_cookie');

    // Same path as when the cookie was written...
    $.removeCookie('the_cookie', { path: '/' });

*Note: when deleting a cookie, you must pass the exact same path, domain and secure options that were used to set the cookie, unless you're relying on the default options that is.*

## Configuration

### raw

By default the cookie value is encoded/decoded when writing/reading, using `encodeURIComponent`/`decodeURIComponent`. Bypass this by setting raw to true:

    $.cookie.raw = true;

### json

Turn on automatic storage of JSON objects passed as the cookie value. Assumes `JSON.stringify` and `JSON.parse`:

    $.cookie.json = true;

## Cookie Options

Cookie attributes can be set globally by setting properties of the `$.cookie.defaults` object or individually for each call to `$.cookie()` by passing a plain object to the options argument. Per-call options override the default options.

### expires

    expires: 365

Define lifetime of the cookie. Value can be a `Number` which will be interpreted as days from time of creation or a `Date` object. If omitted, the cookie becomes a session cookie.

### path

    path: '/'

Define the path where the cookie is valid. *By default the path of the cookie is the path of the page where the cookie was created (standard browser behavior).* If you want to make it available for instance across the entire domain use `path: '/'`. Default: path of page where the cookie was created.

**Note regarding Internet Explorer:**

> Due to an obscure bug in the underlying WinINET InternetGetCookie implementation, IE’s document.cookie will not return a cookie if it was set with a path attribute containing a filename.

(From [Internet Explorer Cookie Internals (FAQ)](http://blogs.msdn.com/b/ieinternals/archive/2009/08/20/wininet-ie-cookie-internals-faq.aspx))

This means one cannot set a path using `path: window.location.pathname` in case such pathname contains a filename like so: `/check.html` (or at least, such cookie cannot be read correctly).

### domain

    domain: 'example.com'

Define the domain where the cookie is valid. Default: domain of page where the cookie was created.

### secure

    secure: true

If true, the cookie transmission requires a secure protocol (https). Default: `false`.

## Contributing

Check out the [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Authors

[Klaus Hartl](https://github.com/carhartl)

Commit message:

Implemented conversion functions as optional last argument for reading and writing. Closes #151.
Along with it fixed that certain decoding and sanitizing should not happen for a cookie's key.

README.md, after:

# jquery.cookie [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/carhartl/jquery-cookie.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/carhartl/jquery-cookie)

A simple, lightweight jQuery plugin for reading, writing and deleting cookies.

## Installation

Include script *after* the jQuery library (unless you are packaging scripts somehow else):

    <script src="/path/to/jquery.cookie.js"></script>

**Do not include the script directly from GitHub (http://raw.github.com/...).** The file is being served as text/plain and as such being blocked
in Internet Explorer on Windows 7 for instance (because of the wrong MIME type). Bottom line: GitHub is not a CDN.

The plugin can also be loaded as AMD module.

## Usage

Create session cookie:

    $.cookie('the_cookie', 'the_value');

Create expiring cookie, 7 days from then:

    $.cookie('the_cookie', 'the_value', { expires: 7 });

Create expiring cookie, valid across entire site:

    $.cookie('the_cookie', 'the_value', { expires: 7, path: '/' });

Read cookie:

    $.cookie('the_cookie'); // => "the_value"
    $.cookie('not_existing'); // => undefined

Read all available cookies:

    $.cookie(); // => { "the_cookie": "the_value", "...remaining": "cookies" }

Delete cookie:

    // Returns true when cookie was found, false when no cookie was found...
    $.removeCookie('the_cookie');

    // Same path as when the cookie was written...
    $.removeCookie('the_cookie', { path: '/' });

*Note: when deleting a cookie, you must pass the exact same path, domain and secure options that were used to set the cookie, unless you're relying on the default options that is.*

## Configuration

### raw

By default the cookie value is encoded/decoded when writing/reading, using `encodeURIComponent`/`decodeURIComponent`. Bypass this by setting raw to true:

    $.cookie.raw = true;

### json

Turn on automatic storage of JSON objects passed as the cookie value. Assumes `JSON.stringify` and `JSON.parse`:

    $.cookie.json = true;

## Cookie Options

Cookie attributes can be set globally by setting properties of the `$.cookie.defaults` object or individually for each call to `$.cookie()` by passing a plain object to the options argument. Per-call options override the default options.

### expires

    expires: 365

Define lifetime of the cookie. Value can be a `Number` which will be interpreted as days from time of creation or a `Date` object. If omitted, the cookie becomes a session cookie.

### path

    path: '/'

Define the path where the cookie is valid. *By default the path of the cookie is the path of the page where the cookie was created (standard browser behavior).* If you want to make it available for instance across the entire domain use `path: '/'`. Default: path of page where the cookie was created.

**Note regarding Internet Explorer:**

> Due to an obscure bug in the underlying WinINET InternetGetCookie implementation, IE’s document.cookie will not return a cookie if it was set with a path attribute containing a filename.

(From [Internet Explorer Cookie Internals (FAQ)](http://blogs.msdn.com/b/ieinternals/archive/2009/08/20/wininet-ie-cookie-internals-faq.aspx))

This means one cannot set a path using `path: window.location.pathname` in case such pathname contains a filename like so: `/check.html` (or at least, such cookie cannot be read correctly).

### domain

    domain: 'example.com'

Define the domain where the cookie is valid. Default: domain of page where the cookie was created.

### secure

    secure: true

If true, the cookie transmission requires a secure protocol (https). Default: `false`.

## Converters

Provide a conversion function as optional last argument for reading and writing,
so that values can be changed to a different representation easily on the fly.
This is useful for parsing numbers (or maybe booleans or dates) when reading:

```javascript
$.cookie('foo', '42');
$.cookie('foo', Number); // => 42
```

Or for JSON serialization and parsing:

```javascript
$.cookie('foo', { bar: 'baz' }, JSON.stringify);
$.cookie('foo', JSON.parse); // => {bar: "baz"}

// With cookie attributes
$.cookie('foo', { bar: 'baz' }, { path: '/' }, JSON.stringify);
```

You can of course write your own arbitrary conversion functions.

## Contributing

Check out the [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Authors

[Klaus Hartl](https://github.com/carhartl)
